<h1>Pandas overview</h1>
<p>"pandas is a fast, powerful, flexible and easy to use open source data analysis and manipulation tool,
built on top of the Python programming language.  <a href="https://pandas.pydata.org/">[ref]</a> "</p>
<p>Pandas is used by professionals and researchers in almost every industry where data can be transformed to insights. It lays the foundation for data manipulation and analysis and multiple libraries build on it including many libraries in the fields of machine-learning, computer vision, statistics, plotting, and other data-intensive fields. In financial analysis, pandas can be used to extract features from data, as I demonstrate in the notebook. This data can then be fed into the methods of other libraries to be further analyzed and utilized to engineer features and gain insight. If data tells a story, pandas organizes that story into books and chapters and lines.</p>
<p>The functionalities of the library can be viewed with great presentation and detail in the jupyter notebook</p>
<p>Pandas was created by Wes McKinney in 2008 <a href="https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=2ahUKEwjOjqvgu_SBAxXCvokEHWspD4AQFnoECCsQAw&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.w3schools.com%2Fpython%2Fpandas%2Fpandas_intro.asp&usg=AOvVaw27v771l9Il4_QFP13T15lb&opi=89978449">[ref]</a></p>
<p>I selected this package because it is the mother of all data-related packages. I need to have a solid understanding and grasp of pandas before I can go and work with other packages for more complex calculations/use-cases</p>
<p>Learning pandas has opened my eyes to the possibilities of data manipulation with python. I have redrawn the lines of what is possible with data, and have gotten some new ideas on how data can be manipulated using built-in datastructures, and how pandas makes that a lot easier.</p>
<p>My overall experience with pandas was great, I would recommend learning pandas to everyone, right after they're comfortable with python. I will definitely continue using this package, or similar packages in the future. There are new packages that build on pandas and try to compensate for pandas' weaknesses. Examples include dask. Dask is designed for parallel and distributed computing, it does not load all the data at once into memory like pandas does, instead it uses multiple shards, and then executes on these shards in parallel, only when needed. </p>
